1) In the ethics application I have indicated that I am not collecting a written record of consent for the following reasons:

Participants on Prolific are able to choose whether or not to participate in a study based on the study's title and description as well as the expected time taken, payment offered, and number of participant slots remaining. Before choosing to participate, they are shown the study description, which should give all the information needed in a consent form/information sheet. This is to avoid wasting participant time as they might otherwise drop out after first seeing this information within the study questionnaire/task itself. It also avoids having to refuse payment for as many incomplete sessions.

A participant that is delivered to the study by Prolific (as opposed to for some reason stumbling upon the direct url) is associated with a Prolific participant ID (supplied via a GET parameter). Thus if a participant has such a number, we know they have come from Prolific and chosen there to begin the study. In the unlikely event that a participant arrives without such a number their data would be destroyed.

The cost of running the study on Prolific is based on the average completion time of the task. While I have over-estimated this to avoid participants rushing, in general I want to minimise the time the participant spends on the study: both to minimise cost, and avoid wasting the participants' time. This is why I want to avoid duplicating the study information and consent at the beginning of the study. It would be more screens of text to read through.

In other words, I believe participants have supplied informed consent by reading the description and choosing to begin the study. I have an indirect record of this (in the form of a participant arriving to the study with a prolific participant ID). Specifically with regard to the GDPR, under the "public task" justification of the GDPR, a record of consent is not necessary for data processing (which is itself only applicable until it is anonymised and thus ceases to be personal data under the definition of the GDPR).


2) To clarify when data is anonymised and the form of the data when published, I have updated the Your Data section with the following line:

"You can withdraw your data until payment has been made. After payment your data will be anonymised in the following way: the responses you give will be associated with a random number and all other information collected for the purpose of managing participant payment will be destroyed. The data will be anonymised before analysis. The data will be published in this (anonymous) form via the Open Science Framework for the purpose of research transparency."

In the ethics application I have added the following line to the "Please detail who will have access to the data generated by the study" section:

"Data will not be aggregated before publication, each participant’s data will be associated with a unique number."


3) To let people know what data we collect, I have updated the Your Data section with the following line:

"We will record the answers you give to questions. We will also record the words you use to describe each shape."


4) To address any particpants who may be a member of a vulnerable group, I have added the following line to the Task section:

"If for any reason you do not feel comfortable continuing the study, you are free to withdraw at any time. You will only be paid if you complete the study."

The study will only be advertised on Prolific to participants over the age of 18, using their built-in filtering tools.
